# IISc Rhapsody Sci-Tech Events 2023 - DataThon
-----------------------------------------------

Task: AI-Generated Content Detection

## Problem Statement

Given a question and a long-form answer to the question, develop an approach that can effectively determine whether the content is generated by an AI system (such as ChatGPT) or was written by a human.

## Motivation

In recent times, Generative AI systems especially those backed by Large Language Models have become extremely proficient at modeling the nuances of language and produce coherent seemingly human-written generations, raising a concern over the growth of AI-generated content over the web which becomes harder to distinguish as these systems improve. Given that there are many aspects in which these models still are not reliable, notably hallucinations (producing information that is not reflective of known facts and/or the view of the world) and perceptions of the world from a fair perspective (generating content that may be stereotypic, misleading, biased towards individuals or communities, not culturally reflective, etc.) and the misuse by malicious users (speading fake news, plagarising assessments, etc.), it is imminent to improve these systems and develop methods and policies that may address these challenges. A first step towards addressing these issues is towards developing systems that can discern AI-generated content from human-written content, in order to take actions to mitigate the spread of fake content and reduce plagarism.

## Description

- The repository comprises of a datasets folder containing the relevant files to use for training and testing the developed approaches. The files are in [JSONL](https://jsonlines.org/) format.

- The file `train.jsonl` is meant to be used for training, and comprises of `?` instances in JSONL format. Each instance is a JSON object with 4 fields:
  - `id`: ID of the record.
  - `question`: Question posed to a human / AI system.
  - `answer`: Answer to the question as given by a human / AI system.
  - `prediction`: Prediction for whether the answer was AI-generated. Possible values are 0 and 1: 1 indicates the content was AI-generated, 0 indicates the content was human-written.

- The file `test.jsonl` is to be used for evaluating the approach and determine the efficacy. Each instance is a JSON object with 3 fields:
  - `id`: ID of the record.
  - `question`: Question posed to a human / AI system.
  - `answer`: Answer to the question as given by a human / AI system.

## Submission Guidelines

Pariticipants are required to submit the following information over a Google Form (link will be shared soon):

1. Details of the team.
2. A brief description of the solution proposed for solving the problem (as a 1-2 page PDF).
    - Within the description, include the following details:
        - Understandings derived from the data that led the team to develop the method being proposed (if applicable).
        - The approach proposed to solve the task.
3. A JSONL / CSV file containing the predictions over the test dataset (**optional, but preferred**).
    - For JSONL files, each line should be a JSON object with two fields: ID (with field name `id`) and prediction (with field name `prediction`, possible values being 0 or 1).
    - For CSV files, each row should have two columns: ID (first column) and prediction (0 or 1, second column). Header should be omitted.
4. Code used for generating the solution (as a single file / ZIP of source code files) (**optional, but preferred**).

Note: Even if you are not able to produce predictions for your approach over the test dataset, submitting a clear description of the derived understandings and the method being proposed still makes you eligible for consideration for the prize. However, provding prediction results without a description would make you ineligible for qualification.

## Evaluation Guidelines

Submissions to the contest will be evaluated over the following criteria:

- Understandings derived from the data.
- Innovation and uniqueness of the proposed method.
- Performance of the solution over the test set (in terms of F1 score).

## Quickstart Resources

- [🤗 NLP Tutorial for Classification using 🤗 `transformers`](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/tasks/sequence_classification)
- [Loading JSONL Datasets using 🤗 `datasets`](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/main/en/loading#json)
- TBD
